This work is funded by the post-doctoral research aid programme of the Republic of Latvia (No. 1.1.1.2/VIAA/1/16/075).

Markov-modulated linear regression (MMLR) was firstly proposed by professor Alexander Andronov. This model is a special case of the Markov additive process (Y, J), where component J is called Markov, and component Y is additive and described by a linear regression. The component J is a continuous-time homogeneous irreducible Markov chain with the known transition intensities between the states. Usually this Markov component is called the external environment or background process. Unknown regression coefficients depend on external environment state, but regressors remain constant.
Markov-switching regression models or regime switching regression models share the same idea of varying the regression parameters randomly in accordance with external environment. However, these models have significant differences in terms of the analytical approach.  Namely, MMLR describes the external environment as a continuous-time homogeneous irreducible Markov chain with known parameters. On the other hand, switching models consider Markov chain as unobservable and estimation procedure involves estimation of transition matrix.

References
[1] Alexander M. Andronov, Nadezda Spiridovska. Markov-Modulated Linear Regression. In proceedings’ book: International conference on Statistical Models and Methods for Reliability and Survival Analysis and Their Validation (S2MRSA), Bordeaux, France, pp.24–28., arXiv:1901.09600v1., 2012.
[2] Spiridovska, N.: A Quasi-Alternating Markov-Modulated Linear Regression: Model Implementation Using Data about Coaches’ Delay Time. International journal of circuits, systems and signal processing 12, 617–628, 2018.
[3] Irina Jackiva (Yatskiv), Nadezda Spiridovska. Data Preparation Framework Development for Markov-Modulated Linear Regression Analysis. In: Kabashkin I., Yatskiv I., Prentkovskis O. (eds) Reliability and Statistics in Transportation and Communication. RelStat 2018. Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems, Springer, Cham (Scopus) DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-12450-2_17, 2019.
[4] Andronov, А. "Statistical estimation of parameters of Markov-modulated linear regression." In Статистические методы оценивания и проверки гипотез, pp. 163-180. 2012 (In Russian).
